[Music]
basics with babish and my website basics
with babish comm are brought to you by
Squarespace head there now to check out
all the recipes from the show kitchen
equipment lists and more get 10% off
your first Squarespace order with offer
code babish whether you need a domain
website or online store make your next
move with the Squarespace alright so the
basis of any good poutine is obviously
french fries which you might be
surprised to learn are made from
potatoes so now that we got to sell it
two to three pounds of russets here
we're gonna slice them into French fries
shapes and you'll notice that I'm
leaving the skins on this can make for a
bit more of a rustic presentation and
poutine is kind of a rustic dish next up
we want to rinse all the starch off our
potatoes this is going to help them
Brown more evenly and prevent sticking
down the line just keep rinsing them
until the water runs clear like this
then maybe most importantly we need to
dry these french fries and thoroughly I
don't know if you've ever tried throwing
something wet into hot oil but if you do
you're gonna have a bad time so using a
nice lint-free cloth like this one we're
gonna get these SuperDuper dry and then
it's time to commence to the first stage
of frying if you've ever watched this
show before you know the best way to
make french fries is to double fry them
in batches into a vat of 350 degree
Fahrenheit vegetable oil they go for
about five to seven minutes until
they're just starting to turn lightly
blonde this par cooking process is going
to mostly cook the potato through
without getting it fully brown this is
the color we're looking for just
starting to turn a light Tony around the
edges then once all the fries are fried
and evacuated onto a paper towel line
the rimmed baking sheet you can see I
slightly overcooked a couple here no
biggie we're gonna let these cool
completely to room temperature and then
place them in the freezer for at least
four hours this is going to make our
french fry interiors nice and fluffy and
creamy and it gives us a little bit of
time to work on our gravy now in the
past I've shown how to make a rich dark
deeply flavored stalks entirely from
scratch but what if you want poutine now
well in that case you can simply use
some aromatics and fresh herbs to amp up
some store-bought stock into a large
saucepan goes a little glug of the
cooking oil of your choice which we're
gonna heat over a medium-high flame
until shimmering adding our vegetables
to
the more nice dark brown color we get on
our veg the more flavor we're gonna add
to our stock you could also add some
high-quality ground beef or chicken to
the mix if you want to go really crazy
but I'm just going with some onions
shallots carrots garlic and ginger
once those are nice and brown I'm going
to add the carton of store-bought along
with some fresh herbs I'm thinking
parsley and thyme get this guy up to a
simmer and then cook for 1 hour before
straining this tip works great for
amping up any store-bought stock and in
this case it's gonna help us make a
gravy that tastes much more homemade
back into our large cleaned-out saucepan
goes 3 tablespoons of unsalted butter
which we're gonna bring to a bubble
before adding 3 tablespoons of
all-purpose flour which we're going to
whisk and cook for about 1 minute until
a light blond Roux is formed into which
we are going to slowly stream our
semi-homemade stock whisking constantly
making sure no lumps or clumps can form
and then we're gonna amp up our gravies
flavor with a few splashes of soy sauce
and you know what it starts with a W
sauce then of course we're gonna taste
for seasoning this needs a great deal of
salt and freshly ground black pepper
whisk that on in there and then it's
time to cook this down to our desired
consistency I'm going for a consistency
almost reminiscent of gravy set that
aside and keep the warm because it's
time to tear off little chunks of
mozzarella and roll them into balls
because we couldn't find cheese curds I
know this is a really lame substitute
but sometimes you don't live in
Wisconsin or Quebec anyway now we've
fetched our fries out of the freezer and
into some 400 degree Fahrenheit oil they
go until they are crisp and golden brown
they're cook time is gonna depend
entirely on how much you par-cooked them
so just keep an eye on them then once
everybody's cooked and it's been allowed
to drain on a wire rack run and dump
them into a large metal bowl and season
liberally with kosher salts tossing
gently and to ensure that we don't have
any unsalted fries which are a huge
bummer
and then as you might imagine poutine
assembly is a relatively simple process
fries down first quote-unquote cheese
curds on top of that Canadians please
forgive me I didn't have to tell you the
truth these look exactly the same and
then our nice thick gravy poured over
top the whole deal making the cheese
softened but not melt and making the
French fries half crisp and half soaked
and meaty ribs sticking goodness I hope
you guys give this one a try for
yourselves and I hope for your sake you
can find real cheese curds this episode
and many others have been sponsored by
square
space because they've been an amazing
partner in both bringing this show and
my websites to life they've got a really
intuitive easy-to-use platform that made
it super easy for someone like me who
has never done web design ever they have
templates they do domains they have
really good customer service it's
basically a one-stop-shop for building a
really slick website if you want to try
it for yourself you can start your free
trial today at squarespace.com and enter
an offer code babish to get 10% off your
first purchase
[Music]
you